---
layout: post
title:  "All About Me"
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /all-about-me/
edited: 2017-10-09 09:31:37 -0400
published: true
---
This is a lot and I bet some of you don't want to read all of this, but that's okay! Here are some links to get around:
* [Who Am I](#who)
* [What Have I Done?](#what)
    * [Reach Podcast Player](#reach)
    * [Slayer](#slayer)
    * [This Blog/Portfolio](#blog)
* [Contact](#contact)
* [Thank You](#thankyou)


# Who Am I? {#who}
My name is Nicholas Morris, and I am an aspiring freelance web developer(with a focus on design)! I currently attend a community college
pursuing a two year associates degree, and am hoping to transfer to a four year school to get a bachelors degree
in computer science.

As is tradition with an overwhelming majority of college students, I'm not exactly rich. So I am trying to get into
freelancing to help cut costs. I could get a traditional part-time job, but I think the freelancing route has more benefits benefits, one of
which includes direct experience in web development field. I made this blog to serve as my journal (not diary) where
I will be recording my journey and thoughts.

# What Have I Done? {#what}
If you came from my [portfolio page][portfolio-page] you have already seen my personal projects, but if not, I'll tell you about
a couple of my favorites:

## [Reach Podcast Player][reach] {#reach}
Reach is a RSS feed based podcast player desktop client that allows users to easily listen to their favorite podcasts.
No podcast database has **all** the podcasts that people want to listen to, so I decided to not rely on a database as my main
source of getting podcasts. 

The only thing that the user would have to do is get the RSS feed link to the podcast of their choice and then paste it into
the podcast player. Not only was the podcast added to their local database of podcast, but it was also uploaded to the global
database. So now any user would be able to listen to that podcast without having to find the RSS feed link.

## [Slayer][slayer] {#slayer}
Slayer is a class based interactive twitter game where players play with up to 10 other players in order to fight (or slay) a boss. The
twitter bot would send out a tweet saying that the game was starting and users could join by tweeting at the bot with a certain command.
Once the game was started the bot would post a picture every 60 seconds showing the boss' health, the player's health, the move the 
player decided to do, and the damage they took from the boss.

Between each tweet from the bot, players could send a tweet telling the bot what move they were going to do. The default move was attacking
the boss, but if the player was a mage they could choose to heal people, and if the player was an archer or warrior they could choose to
temporarily boost a certain stat. While this project did not get any sort of player base it was fun to make, and I'd like to revive it at
some point in the future.


## [This Blog & Portfolio][portfolio-page] {#blog}
For some people this may not be all too impressive but I am quite proud of this. I had never used Jekyll before I started to make 
this, but I managed to get this all setup in a little less than a week. While I would like to primarily be a freelance web developer, I
like to focus on design. Making this would have been much easier if I had just used a free and stylish theme, but I decided to bite my tounge
and make a design of my own. It started off rough but I am very satisfied with the design. For the most part I enjoy doing creative designs that
follow current standards and trends, but also go againsts norms and overused trends.



# Contact {#contact}
Feel free to shoot me a message whether you want to get in contact with me to ask a question, or if you want to work on something! Although I
am busy with school and a part-time job, I'm always (okay most of the time) down to work on a project. I'd prefer work/jobs that would put my 
web development skills to good use, but I'm always willing to learn something new! My social media links are at the bottom and top of the page, but in case something has gone terribly wrong, here they are again:

- [Twitter: @Nickels_7][twitter]
- [Github: SolarFloss][github]
- [Email: NicholasMrNickMorris@gmail.com][email]


# Thank You {#thankyou}
Thank you very much for reading this far. Realistically I could be writing this for no one, but at the same time maybe some of you did decide to read through this entire post. For that I am grateful! If you enjoyed what you've seen today, consider stopping by every now and then to see my progress on this wonderful journey of mine. Unfortunately I do not have an email list, but fortunately Jekyll comes with a built in RSS feed generator! You can subscribe to mine [here][rss]. Even though I made an RSS feed based application I actually know very little about RSS, so if you encounter any issues please let me know. Have a wonderful day! 




[portfolio-page]: https://solarfloss.github.io
[reach]: https://github.com/SolarFloss/Reach-Podcast-Player
[slayer]: https://github.com/SolarFloss/Slayer
[email]: mailto:nicholasmrnickmorris@gmail.com
[github]: https://github.com/SolarFloss
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/Nickels_7
[rss]: {{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/feed.xml