---
layout: post
title:  "Charging Clients"
categories: freelancing charging
permalink: /charging-clients/
edited: 2017-11-15 09:31:37 -0400
published: true
author: Nicholas Morris
description: Learning how to charge clients with trial and error
comments: true
---

# Last Week

The past two weeks for me have been hectic and I haven't had much time to do any freelancing work at all. Because of this I couldn't squeeze in a post last week! I'm still insanely busy, but I refuse to go two weeks in a row without any sort of post. This post will be relatively short, but I need to get in a posting groove if I want to do this long term.

# Charging Clients

I've been doing a lot of reading on [Medium.com](Medium.com) and [/r/freelance](https://reddit.com/r/freelance) on Reddit and I've heard quite a few things about handling how to charge clients. The two basic payment models are Fixed Price, and Hourly. For the most part, each kind of project will decide which model works best. For example, doing a small project that would take about an hour or two wouldn't result in a favorable paycheck if I charged hourly, so going with a fixed payment would be better in this case. 

# My Experience

Two weeks ago I got in contact with a potential client, and I told him that I would charge him $55/hour, which to me, seemed reasonable. I've heard different limits, but for the most part, it's a general consensus to not work for less than $40-$50/hour. With that in mind I told him $55/hour, but that I was willing to negociate for lower. I never heard back from him, so I assume that my rate was out of his price range. This is what kills me, because I felt as if that was a reasonable price point to charge at. It was a family owned bar, so I know they aren't exactly swimming in money, but even so, unless he looks on UpWork or somewhere similar, he probably won't find an offer for much cheaper. Once I finish with my current client, I will probably email him again, but this time with a lower offer. This may seem like a step in the wrong direction, but this is a potential client who I've been in contact with, so I know I can reach him again

# Calculations

I've heard many things for calculating what your rate is or how much to charge for a fixed price, and I'm not really sure what to do with that. With my current client I gave him a random number that I didn't put much thought into. In hindsight, it was a pretty good number to give, but it was a completely random number. 

For hourly rates, I think starting off at $45 is ideal. Then I would take into account how much I would need to survive for the month. I've heard of some people taking that and adding some overhead fees just as a safety net. I like the thought of that, but for now I will ignore that.

For fixed rates I think you follow a similar concept. The difference is that it's important that you estimate how many hours the job will take. Once you have that you can multiply it by what you think your hourly rate is. The obvious issue with this is that it's not scalable. If you estimate a job will take 5 hours and you multiply by $45/hour you will make ~$225. But what if the job begins to take longer and longer. You will have to redo your calculations and notify the client of the increase in price. At that point you're basically working at an hourly rate, but you have to think about how the client may feel as they see the price getting higher and higher.

# Confidence

For the most part, a lot of it comes down to being confident in yourself and your services. If you can do something, and you see someone else doing that same thing, but worse, and for more money, go ahead and increase your rate. There is no rule saying what your rate should be. Someone could have their rate be two times as large as the median rate in your area, but if they can sell not just their services, but themselves that well, then they deserve to make that much money. The last point I want to make, is to do research on the clients you plan on getting in contact with, and scale your rates accordingly. In my case, if the information was easily accessible, I would have looked into how many people visit the bar, and made an estimation as to how much money they make. With that in mind I could give an hourly rate that wouldn't break the bank. I honestly have no idea how much money they make, so giving a rate that I think is fair based on median rates may not be applicable.

# Moving Forward

Since I've been quite busy, I still have not finished work with my first client. He is seemingly understanding and is okay that it is taking longer than intended, but I can't hold off forever. I am pretty close to being done, but I'm not quite there yet. I was contacted by someone on Reddit that wanted me to make a one page website for them and we agreed on a $45/hour rate, but I haven't heard back from him since, but for my first two months as a freelance web developer and designer, things are going pretty well. I don't know what my next post will be about, but I will definitely get one out by next Wednesday. Until then, have a good rest of your week and I hope to see you soon. There is a comment section now, so if you have anything to say, please do!