---
layout: post
title:  "Support!"
categories: freelancing dev
permalink: /support-with-google/
edited: 2017-10-30 09:31:37 -0400
published: true
author: Nicholas Morris
description: Unique support idea using google AdSense
---

# Hello Everyone!

Thank you for visiting my ad page! Becuase ads are generally intrusive and ugly, I decided to make a post with ads and treat it as my support page. I haven't seen anyone do anything like this, and that's probably because it's not really effective. The idea in my head is to leave a link to this page at the end of every post, and when you click it you will be taken to this page which has an ad or two on it. This way the ads are shown by choice!


{% include advertisement.html %}

# Does This Work?

My guess is that it does not work but I'm willing to try it out for a while. Anyways ([I know it's not technically a real word](https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/lets-talk-about-anyways)), it is not as if I am losing any money or putting in any effort by doing this, so any amount of money made is a success.

{% include advertisement.html %}

# What Kinds of Ads Will Be Here?

For now just basic Google AdSense ads will be shown here, but I might move onto some most cost effective options. If I ever do anything like a video ad, I promise not to make it appear without your permission! That would pretty much defeat the purpose of this page.

# Thank You

If you are reading this, you have supported me! Using intrusive ads on every page would definitely get me the big bucks, but this is completely fine with me. Thank you for coming to this page, and if you have any comments or suggestions please message me on Twitter or shoot me an email. Have a nice day and/or night!