---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Updates"
categories: blog update
permalink: /blog-updates/
edited: 2017-11-01 09:31:37 -0400
published: true
author: Nicholas Morris
description: All about the updates to the blog and what's up next
comments: false
---

# Some New Changes!

Hello again! Since last week, I've made quite a number of changes to the blog. One of which is the addition of Disqus for commenting, so now you all can leave feedback directly on the site! The second change is the addition of ads. Now I know what you're thinking. "Ads suck you sellout!". I agree with one out of those two statements. Ads do in fact suck, but I like to consider myself better than a sellout to be honest. Before you leave my blog because you are disappointed in my choices let me explain why I have ads (which can easily be guessed), and where they are.

# Why Ads?

I'm sure it's not hard to guess why I have ads or why anyone has ads. I'm not afraid to admit that I like making money, but I want to make clear that my main goal of this blog isn't to make money. As I've stated before, this blog essentially serves as a diary/journal for my experiences as a web developer and designer. I've never said this on the blog, but my main goal in life as of now is to end up doing something that I truly enjoy. I truly enjoy web development and design, and so by extension I enjoy writing this blog. The thought of getting paid doing something I enjoy is a thought I've had for a long time now. I like to think of this as a possible beginning to that lifestyle I crave

# Where Are the Ads?

Maybe you've noticed that you haven't seen any ads yet. That's because I plan on only having ads on one page. I'm thinking of doing posts in the future that contain ads, but that's just an idea. By only having one page with ads I can decrease the annoyance that ads bring. I call the page with an ad my "Support Page".

## Support Page

The basic idea is to have a single page where people can visit to support me. Think of it as a donate button or donate page. All you have to do is visit the page, and I get a small amount of money. I'm not dumb, and I know that this is extremely inefficient and I would have much better sucess with small ads at the bottom of each article, but I don't want to risk losing any readers due to ads. The support page was set up two days ago, and the ads have yet to show up, but when they do, I'll add a small excerpt at the end of each article that provides a link to the support page. On the support page itself, you will find several ads. I haven't worked out exactly how I want to structure the page, but as of now it looks like any other post page, but there are ads that break up the text.

## Support Page Ideas

Some ideas that I've had for the page are:

### Video Ads

I've thought about adding some video ads into the mix. The problem is that, as far as I know in order to get video ads on your site you have to reach a certain amount of monthly page views. So I'd have to become a lot more popular before I could implement that.

### Games

I'm fairly certain that this would have no effect on how much I'm earning but everyone loves a good game. I'm thinking that maybe there would be some simple game with a leaderboard so that people would want to come back to the page. This is more than a fun idea rather than an idea that will improve the page, but everyone loves a little fun.

### Cryptocurrency Mining

At [Donate Your Tab To](https://donateyourtab.to), you can flip a switch that begins to mine cryptocurrency. I haven't done too much research into this, and don't know if it's possible through a static site hosted on github, but I'm willing to look into it. With simple banner ads, the user has to refresh the page for me to get money, but if there was a switch that they could flip that would be continuously running in the background, the user wouldn't have to refresh the page. Of course the amount of money that one can mine from a tab is miniscule, but this is an idea worth playing around with.

# Moving Forward

If you have any other ideas for an ad page please let me know in the newfound comment section! As of Wednesday, the 1st of November, the ads have not appeared, but according to Google, it takes about 2-3 days for the ads to start working. Until then, I'll be brainstorming some ideas. Oh! I also plan on adding a search feature to the blog itself. I have not looked into doing it, but I've done something similar before so I don't think it will take too long to get implemented.

I just recently ordered the book [Design for People](https://www.amazon.com/Design-People-Stories-Together-Things/dp/1938922859), and while I haven't began reading it, I am really looking forward to it. I also own the book [Graphic Design Visionaries by Caroline Roberts](https://smile.amazon.com/Graphic-Design-Visionaries-Caroline-Roberts/dp/1780674848/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1509579150&sr=1-1&keywords=graphic+design+visionaries), and checked out [The Practitioner's Guide to User Experience Design](https://smile.amazon.com/Practitioners-Guide-User-Experience-Design/dp/1455548588/ref=sr_1_sc_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1509579198&sr=1-1-spell&keywords=the+practitioner+s+guide+to+user+experience+design). I'm pretty deep into these two books and have loved them so far. I've gotten a lot of good info from the UX guide and have put what I've learned into practice. The graphic design book serves more as a book filled with inspiration. I'd like to begin collecting design books of all types. From Typography, to design of physical objects. I don't want this whole design thing to be just a hobby or a phase. This is something I want to work on indefinitely. I'd like to really bring something important to the design world, so acquiring these books will serve as the beginning of my journey to becoming someone influential.

# Thank You
If you've made it this far, I want to thank you. Hopefully you will stay with me as I travel along this path. If you are new to the blog, first of all, welcome! But secondly, I release a new post every Wednesday. I don't have a set time yet, but I try to get it out around noon EST. Today was a little late because I was trying to hold out for Google's ads to show up, but I had no such luck. Now that Disqus is set up, if you have any questions or comments please leave one below. It really means a lot. I hope to see you again!