---
layout: post
title:  "My 2017"
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /My-2017/
edited: 2017-12-24 09:31:37 -0400
published: true
author: Nicholas Morris
description: My thoughts on 2017 and moving forward
comments: true
---

Like all previous years, 2017 has had its ups and downs. I will admit though, that 2017 had more ups than downs. For example I created this blog was created during 2017 so that was a big up. I also got my first freelancing clienr; another big up. The downs weren't really 'downs' because they were all things that I could quickly recover from and were often school related. Even if I had failed all of my classes, I think there is a good chance I would still be here writing this blog post. I have to say that I have learned quite a bit over 2017, and I'm willing to say that this year may have been the year where I've learned the most. I started several projects this year, each of which using a new technology that I had not previously used before.

I'm taking a look at my Github history now and 2017 has been an amazing year for me in terms of programming. To kick off 2017, I created [Slayer](https://github.com/SolarFloss/Slayer), the interactive Twitter game. That was my first time ever getting into NodeJS. Even though the project didn't reach as much success as I wanted it to, it was a very good experience. Next I made [Odyssey/Illiad SMS](https://github.com/SolarFloss/OdysseySMS-Desktop-). I like to consider this as my first "commercial" product. It's one of my favorites, as I still use it to this day. I actually plan on rebuilding it from the ground up, but more on that later. Later on in the year I took my first look at implementing algorithms in my [maze generating and solving program](https://github.com/SolarFloss/Maze-Solving-and-Generating). Looking back on this makes it look like a small project, but this was a project that I was extremely proud of when I first made it.

I April of 2017 I attended my first ever Hackathon hosted at [William and Mary](https://www.wm.edu). Although I'm not super proud of the project we made, we recieved $100 for being the best project in our 'division', and overall it was a good experience. In July I learned about [Electron](https://electronjs.org) and was honestly blown away. The ability to make desktop applications using web technologies seemed amazing. With this newfound fascination, I went on to develop [Reach Podcast Player](https://github.com/SolarFloss/Reach-Podcast-Player). This is another project that I was extremely proud of at the time. While I have no plans on finishing that project I am happy that I was able to learn so much from making it. July was also the time when I began working on my portfolio. This was when I started reading about freelancing. Of all the decisions I made in 2017, those that were made in July were probably the ones that contributed the most to me ending up where I am now. Had I not decided to create my portfolio, I probably would not have started to look for clients, or even create this blog. I probably would not be so much into design as I am now.

Most of July and August were spent working on the portfolio and the podcast player so I did not start any new projects until October. October is when I made my first website for someone. This is when I made a small "coming soon" page for [Bacon Labs](https://baconlabs.ca). This was a pivotal moment in my eyes. I remember having this moment of accomplishment knowing that there was a website out there that I made. 

Not much happened for me between the end of August and September, but October was a big month for me. That was when I got my first reply from a client agreeing to have me redesign their website. This moment was HUGE because it was what I was working towards for the past few months. Even though that was only two months ago, it honestly feels so long ago. I just officially finished the site two weeks ago, but the last few months have truly been a blur. Even though I haven't had any success similar to that I am still keepign my head up high. If I could do it once, I can do it again.

# Moving Forward

I've never been too big on new year's resolutions but I do have some personal goals I'd like to achieve. To keep myself in check I think I'll be doing monthly reviews of my goals to make sure I'm keeping my promises. I'll also be adjusting my goals as necessary because things change over time, so my goals should too.

## Goal 1: Network

I've had very minor success in being a self-employed freelancer, and I do attribute that success to hard work. This is good and all, but the issue I see is that I'm putting in a lot of work, when I may not necessarily need to be putting in this much work in order to be successful in the long term. Right now I am spending a lot of free time looking for clients and not hearing back from them. This isn't exactly sustainable if I want to do this full time, so the solution that I've come up with (with the help of some seasoned veterans) is to have clients come to me. To achieve this I will need to network more. Going to a hackathon was a good first step even if this wasn't what I was trying to accomplish. I wasn't determined on being a web dev at the time so I didn't really make any waves in that regard. During the next hackathon I will definitely be putting my web dev skills on display. Networking doesn't just stop at hackathons though. I need to attend meetups and meet a lot more people in the industry. The basic idea is to become known as someone who makes good quality websites. If my name is passed around enough, at some point it will find someone who will be in need of my services

## Goal 2: Learn more about backend development

I'm definitely a frontend web dev, but it's important to diversify my skillset. I cannot hope to survive in this industry with such a small subset of skills. I still want to be the best frontend dev and designer that I can be, but I don't want to miss out on any opportunities to better myself as an all around developer.

## Goal 3: Write better code

This one is more broad than the others, but it's something that I really want to improve at. I actually don't think it matters all too much when it comes to web development because when I make a website for a client, I probably won't have to go back and look at my code too often. To me, this seems like a trap. I do not want to get complacent and start writing lazy and hacky code for every site I make. My [Connect 4 game](https://github.com/SolarFloss/Connect-With-Friends) quickly became a jumbled mess because of laziness. I'd like to prevent this in the future by trying to organize my code very meticulously and implementing modular practices. This will be a lot of work to transition to, but this is something that I am positive will benefit me greatly in the future.

# Finishing Off 2017

Earlier I stated that I am going to be recreating my [Odysse/Illiad](https://github.com/SolarFloss/OdysseySMS-Desktop-) texting app. I plan on spending the rest of 2017, first learning either [Elm](http://elm-lang.org) or [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org). This is in order to improve the quality of my code. I will be immediately working on my third goal. I will also be learning [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org) from the ground up. The original app was made in pure Java for the mobile and desktop client. This time I will be using Kotlin for the mobile, and Electron for desktop. I'm focusing so much on modular and efficient code because I know that Electron (and JS in general) lets users fall into the trap of writing 'spaghetti' code very quickly. Electron is already pretty heavyweight, so i would like to cut down on that as much as possible. The reason I'm using electron at all is because of the ability to use CSS. I personally think that CSS is unmatched in the design space. I'm already so used to it, and it offers countless advantages over it's competitors. Anyways, I hope everyone has a great new years, and makes effective resolutions! See you next time.